All right guys welcome back to the courts.
Last hour four or five six lectures whatever.
What are the basics of video production.
Right so you have your lighting you have your audio and then you have your video.
That's kind of the trifecta.
You have to figure out in order to make a good video in each case there are terms that are helpful info
and equipment that maybe you didn't know the name of or what it did.
But well now you know what comes next is figuring out which of those pieces of production equipment
you'll need to make your videos.
And this is what we're going to talk about in this lecture how to put together a production set up based
on your needs but especially based on your budget.
Now here is the kind of wonderful thing about video production.
No matter what kind of videos you want to create you can pretty much work with any size budget larger
budget to make it easier.
And sometimes you can make better stuff but if you're crafty and creative you can pull it off on a shoestring.
That was a lot of people out there doing amazing things with barely any budget but it's generally because
they know how to work with the stuff that they've got how to use their equipment and how to use software
and the fundamentals of videography.
But the flip side is you have people who have you know spent tens of thousands of dollars on high end
stuff and they make crap videos because they don't understand how to use it or really how to tell a
good story.
Well look at every crappy Michael Bay Transformers movie I think you'll see what I mean.
But they better stop creating them now if you can write content Well you can write a script and if you
can tell a story you can make videos.
It just takes practice to make the camera produce what you've got in your hand and greatly improve your
video making is honestly just to hit record.
Just start making videos try your best do not obsess over perfection just get out and try and immediately
you will start learning things.
But of course you need the equipment to get started.
So in this lecture I want to give you three options for three ranges of budgets.
Some of you are going to want to start on the absolute lowest end possible and that's totally fine.
And so what I'm going to do is try to give my best advice for what's the absolute cheapest set up I
think you could potentially make good videos with.
Now what I mean the low end I try to keep it under say 500 to 1000 because it's really really hard to
get everything for under 500 unless you're really starting to substitute parts to the point where it's
getting kind of ridiculous.
But I can give you an ultra slim budget right up front that should be under 500.
But then we'll talk about a real cheap budget that's between 500000.
It's just in hard.
You have to have a camera.
You have to have audio.
You have to have lighting of some kind.
You're going to have to have basic accessories for like recording the audio and there's just a lot that
you have to get.
So it kind of adds up.
They don't know is it going to be some midrange options.
There going to be between 1000 and 3000 which is good if you have a little bit of experience making
videos or maybe you own some of your own low end equipment and you want to upgrade or you're just a
little bit more serious about getting into videos.
And like worst case scenario is hey I like to play with this stuff.
Anyway that was my attitude.
Gotten a video.
I bought some nicer stuff than I knew how to use.
However I as a hobby also just learned how to use it because it's just really fun.
I like technology.
And then of course if you're ready to rock out some really high end video.
Well I've got some equipment that you can consider that will take you well above the $3000 limit.
But we're still going to focus on things that are expensive but reasonably So we're going to talk about
the ones that $6000 just because we're going to focus on getting the most bang for your buck if you're
in that 3000 to 5000 range.
Now DRIESUM really high quality stuff with this.
Like not Avatar or anything like that.
But when you compare your marketing videos other marketing videos it might look like the avatar of marketing
videos.
OK.
All right let's let's go over this and let's start with what I call the ultra slim package and we'll
transition that into the basic package which is starter.
OK so this is the absolute cheapest I think you could possibly do it and you'd get the Evan stamp of
approval.
It would be me grinning and not super happy about it.
But you get it.
So the first thing I would say is shoot your smartphone.
OK.
Well I now this is kind of a loophole because if you don't have a smartphone you have to buy them and
everyone has one.
What I would suggest doing though is shooting with some of the better stuff.
So if you have a friend who has an iPhone 7 that's a great place to start.
Six is an ass.
Ease also shoot pretty well.
And then of course the Samsung Galaxy is really nice cameras.
They kind of put the iPhones to shame sometimes so if you have access to one of those that's also a
great place to start.
Generally what you want to look for is say the Impey megapixels and some of these higher end ones can
shoot in massive megapixels and that just means you know mega or God is a thousand pixel whatever it's
just a lot of pixels.
If you have a lot of pixels while then you're kind of closing the gap between what a cheap smartphone
can do and what a fancy camera can do.
So what I would say is try to borrow someone's iPhone 7 or their Samsung Galaxy or something like that
because those shoot well over like 25 megapixels.
And that's way more than you would need for this.
Never earlier when were talking about how you kind of to make up for the fact using a smartphone but
using other things.
Well that's pretty important as well here.
But we'll try our best.
OK.
So video is going to be on your iPhone.
What I would suggest is for audio I would probably go real cheap with this one.
So either get one of those audio attachments that plug into the bottom of your iPhone and then record
into it or get a zoom.
Each one recorder.
Now what does zoom H-1 or quarter is is it's just like a handheld recorder.
But it's really small and the audio quality is pretty good.
And so what you're going to do is treat that like any other shotgun mike.
These only cost like 80 bucks.
And then what you can do is just kind of put it on the table when you're filming something or put it
directly out of view or you can hoist it up and hold it if you want to hold it up.
Then what you can do is get a boom stand.
Now a boom stand.
There's a million and one of them I mean I use one called onstage stands on Amazon.
I think that 25 bucks something like that it'll break.
Of course it will break constantly but if you're really really cheap and you can keep repairing it so
get that and then use a zoom recorder and just hold that above their head.
Another great thing with the zoom H-1 key H-1 the bottom model is that it records everything internally.
Right.
So you don't have to like going to record or going to something else.
It can just record internally and also has a pretty good battery.
All right so that's your video and your audio.
So you just borrow a smartphone.
$0 and 25 bucks for your boom stand and then your zoom H-1 is about 80.
So now only about $120 at this point for your lighting.
I'd say there's two options.
One is you can go to a hardware store and you can actually just shoot with regular light bulbs.
Now you said that before it's not a good idea but we're also assuming that you were not completely broke.
A lot of times what you can do is go get these things called Colet grommets that basically what they
are backings to light that are made out of aluminum and are reflective.
OK.
And the oftentimes clips on them.
So what you have is a clip and then a kind of comb shape aluminum reflector you put in a light bulb
and there you go.
It's just getting a better light bulb.
You can use a regular light bulb.
The problem is just that they're not going to be very bright and see our eye the color temperature the
accuracy of the color is going to be pretty weak.
Soooo what I would suggest in that situation is if you can't access the Amazon like for instance there's
a one called Lemos studio and they have these daylight full spectrum bulbs and they're like $15 a bulb
but they give off way more lumens than any other regular light.
Actually very bright.
And if you get say like three or four of those and you stick those up in where you need them in the
right angles in the right places you can make it work.
And the reflector in the back actually push it towards the person.
Now the next thing you can do and some people other video will absolutely cringe to hear this but I
will suggest that sometimes you can use things like wax paper for diffusion on top of the bowl.
Now you don't want to expose bulbs just staring right at you it's too bright and the lights just going
to go everywhere.
So sometimes that you can do is just use tape and wax paper or if you buy like diffusion paper at art
stores it's really rich sheeplike $5 you can wrap that in a bulb around it.
And that works out pretty well for diffusing it.
Although again people snobs who will be like mad for using it too much but who cares.
It's better than not using it.
So yeah I think you could get that done for like $150.
Hundred and ninety dollars maybe pass that way you can do is you can buy some really cheap LCD light
panels unlike Amazon for instance.
They these ones are like four inches by two inches and you just use double AA batteries there.
I think $25 $30 something like that.
And if you have two of those that also could work as well.
You can use those instead of using those comments with the clips past that.
I would say just get some lights dance.
That's it.
You know again Nestle I have to use light stands but usually only like $10.
The cheapest ones.
And then what you do is you take your grommets and attach them to it or attach to the Ltd's that you
bought that use the double AA batteries.
Then pass that.
How do you get a hold the smartphone.
Well what I'd suggest is either just having someone hold it and then use Adobe Premiere and we'll talk
about this later.
That thing called warp stabilizer which can actually stabilize it for you is it perfect.
No but then again the scenario is not perfect.
You can also get like a gorilla pod.
Like $20 and they're just these really useful goofy looking things that can hold a phone and whatever
position you want and you can wrap them around something so you can wrap them around a light stand and
then point those wherever you need to actually point the camera.
That's my suggestion for your lighting your audio and your camera for the ultra cheap version.
Good link in the resources to some people there are some pretty good guides on how to shoot well with
the absolute bare minimum.
It gets pretty tricky but you can do it and I'm not the master working with it.
Nothing like a hundred dollar budget but this is one way you could do it if you take more time finagling
it to get it to work.
But you don't spend a lot of money.